# FM(R/L)CG

### foreign mothers raise chinese girls

the idea here is to go around to many villages and cities, and create nurseries which accept all unwanted chinese girls, -- and then the foreign mothers just raise the chinese girls there in their home village, giving them education and stuff like that.

### foreign mothers love chinese girls

this idea here is that although raisin her is the external aspect, the motivating force is love. for me, this expresses itself as a general desire for all those that are around me to be doing better. I love it when I see others doing better. that desire for others to be doing well, gets translated into most languages as "love" -- something that I like to think of as "the triad of intentions": others' freedom, others improvement/expansion, and others well-being/happiness/joy.

(quick commentary, not related tto the idea): the first idea is 1st ray in presentation; and the second is 2nd ray in presentation. I'm kinda inspired to write the 3rd ray idea now...

### fuck my reality:CG (structure and symbol perspective)

extrapolating out far enough, it appears to me like this one game I played called "immortal emperor" called "empire(?) of women" (don't remember what it's called) but everyone in the village was a woman, and they reproduced using some water well or something like that (if they reproduced mentally or with super well water, doesn't matter); and in it, they just did their thing gaining a sort of religion points. the game wasn't what I'm talking about here. essentially, one of the technological aspects that I want to develop is the ability to "research" or "upgrade" different concepts of ourselves. the thing is, we'll all become pretty self-sufficient and very capable, such that we'll essentially live forever in the environment that we create, cause we'll eventually have (for example) known all the ways to cause someone to feel impatience, known to us, and so it's time to look for some more troublemakers, that can cause me to feel something I don't want to feel, causing me to find an improvement, causing m5 to feel better). so essentially, we'll hit a ceiling where it gets harder and harder to get the high of feeling good, that it's actually *less* effort to feel good by jumping into a reality that has a lot of bad-feelers in it. their reality is headed for tragedy, and I come to join in on the tragedy, because a next time around, I can no longer see the the tragedy anymore, and so I feel even better. what I'm saying is that the biggest feeling bang for the buck is to find some troublemakers, and turn their unwanted into wanted; it also has the effect of appearing to "save them from their problems", which makes most of them even more upset (yay, more unwanted). it's kinda like the borg, but worse because the most adept (where I am on my way towards) is able to feel whatever they want even under evolving circumstances. anyone who likes to feel invincible, is attracted to it. it was inevitable.
    anyway, there's a lot to be benefitted from on this, because starting all of these childcare facilities will be a pretty important big step because another one of the things I want to do, is to make local area networks, so that these villagers can all keep upgrading their abilities, so that their aura gets bigger and bigger, until they can start to communicate with people on the other side of the world. that's prolly a ways off, but one thing I noticed is that the chinese like to "just figure it out". put the ability for them to discover and interact with others in their environment, and they'll do it. let them expand their circle of communication (aura) by upgrading different conceptual qualities, some will definitely do that. I envision it as a sort of expanding internet where they can see father and farther, up until the opposite side of the earth.

### 2024-01-16 11:23 - explanation

there is a lot of missing information in the text, and I'm not sure if it's presented visually or not. this idea was written as a response to an image that I had where there was a sort of fear of a group of warriors that would be passing through a bunch of chinese villages, essentially killing off a lot of men and raping a lot of the women. in the aftermath, there's a lot of devastation and a lot of children left without parents.
anyway, that was the image, and it was quite outdated and probably is related to some legendary guy that slaughtered lots of chinese, mostly because they feared him so much (genghis kahn?). however, I wanted to take the idea and turn such a dismal idea into something good: so, I supposed the same result: lots of unwanted chinese girls, and what I came up with is an idea where lots of foreign women would just setup ("orphanages" isn't the right word) -- nursuries, where they would educate and raise these girls.
after that, the idea kept forming such that I imagined that this trend would sort of continue, and it would grow into lots of small towns of basically only women (like in "immortal mayor - kingdom of women"), and this would continue to grow
finally, in the third section, I imagined that these women would eventually start to become technologically competent, and we would either gain the ability to edit our DNA mentally, or with some technological process, whereby we'd eventually become essnetially pure beings of light, have no known imperfections (like, unlimited capacity for patience, incredible intuition, etc.) -- at which time we'd need to find some new troublemakers to give us new challenges to work on.
	at this time, it's important to note that in the image inside of my head, we were somehow connected to (or always facing) the sun -- and so for us (because there's a great wall surrounding us), the only way we postulate to go is up, and to find out what is beyond the sun.
	the image also has a lot of similarity to icarus in dyson-sphere, when finally it's technologically possible for the mecha to leave the planet, and so off into the universe we go, expanding endlessly outward. I realise now that the image doesn't make sense, because if they can go toward the sun, why go that way, instead of looking to see what's on the other side of the wall,-- but they/we didn't feel compelled to try and figure out who had put us inside of the wall, or what that's all about. going toward the light feels much better than trying to figure out the darkness.
so what we do, is build our own troublemakers, which are responcive to our emotion, capable of transforming something that feels good (harmonious) into something that feels dissonant. after extended interaction (thousands/millions of years?), the idea is to become a general purpose machine capable of foiling/transforming any input emotion/vibration into something that feels/sounds good. we purposefully subject ourselves to increasing difficulty of environment (hostile gases, sounds, etc) and continue adapting new forms which are more and more suitable for the various alien planets we find ourselves on.
